# Jeremy Kansas
## Welcome to my Portfolio
*...a perpetual work in progress...*

---

As I look back over my Bachelor of Science in Computer Science coursework, I realize I have learned a great variety of different concepts and skills. Despite this, I think the most important lessons are more general than any self-contained computer science topic as these are things I learned about myself, about my interests and goals and values. For one, through the variety of assignments and classes, I found my love of problem solving challenged and ultimately reaffirmed. Whether it be reconstructing C code from a disassembled binary, or manipulating vectors in order to build shaders for OpenGL graphics, or coding a successful merge sort, I still find that if I am presented with the logical building blocks, so to speak, I love nothing more than to find a way to fit them together to solve the problem at hand. At the same time, I’ve developed my ability to relate the piece of whatever puzzle I am currently dealing with to the bigger picture, the end goal.

Beyond this I’ve also had ample opportunity to exercise my thirst for knowledge. While common wisdom often tells us to specialize, to focus on an area of expertise, I can’t help but be more of a generalist. Still, I think my inherently interdisciplinary nature has its own value, which is too often overlooked. Not just in computer science – where my interests range from artificial intelligence, to games and graphics programming, to creativity and education software, to an emerging interest in legacy systems and embedded systems, to mathematics – but I also have a long-standing and deep-seated love and respect for topics in art, history, literature, music, psychology, and so much more. Coupled with all of this is my strong ability to direct my own learning process, something I’ve been doing naturally for much of my life, now exercised and honed through years of online coursework. Even now, I am furthering my knowledge and understanding of digital signal processing (at least, specifically as it applies to sampled audio), something I was not able to “officially” study before.

My values have evolved somewhat over the past few years, thanks in part to some of my coursework. If we tighten the focus for a moment onto software development (which, though not officially for technical reasons, could be said to be my concentration), rather than computer science as a whole, the value that looms largest in my mind is collaboration. It’s important to remember that software is made for people (businesses, consumers, industries, etc.) and it’s made by people. Most significant systems or components are too complex for a single person to realistically create and support alone, thus collaboration is key. The only way for people to collaborate successfully on a project is to help each other out, to properly outline requirements and carefully implement designs, to use coding best practices such as good naming conventions and formatting and commenting, to test code before submitting it for review, to graciously accept constructive criticism, to accurately log security issues, to provide audience appropriate documentation – in a single word, at every step in the process, it’s all about communication.

As my education progressed, my goals remained consistent, with only slight adjustments to my outlook. My biggest aspiration, and something I’ve already begun work on, is to work for myself or as part of a small company, creating high quality and unique audio software for musicians, producers, and sound designers. Knowing that this is a narrow niche, and a hefty portion of luck would be involved in finding success there, I typically widen my “ideal job” to include anything related to creative or educational software. In many of my past personal artifacts, which will soon enough be featured in this portfolio as well, I worked to come up with novel ways for a user to interact with sound and graphics, both on desktops and touch screens, and these are experiences that could inform future work at building such creative or educational software. Realistically, I expect to be far more flexible at first as I am new to the field as a whole, but having a potential endpoint in mind and working at my various side-projects will help focus my endless education and drive my efforts at growth.

With all of that said, we can now move on to a few specific artifacts that showcase some of my knowledge and abilities. I feel it’s quite difficult to illustrate the full range of my potential with a limited number of examples – take them, then, for what they are: working software artifacts that I’ve created, that show some specific problems solved using some specific techniques or tools. From these, I hope one can mentally extrapolate to the potential projects these actual projects may hint at. Less abstractly, these artifacts are also a record of much of what I mentioned above: self-directed learning, creativity and problem solving, a wide range of interests. Finally, these artifacts, all of them, are flawed. It’s important to note that I am well aware of these flaws – the areas where security is weak or features are incomplete or code is a horrid mess – and I am able to communicate this understanding to others, and I am able to, given time, address these flaws. Still, software, as a product of the human mind – a beautiful and powerful and incredibly flawed thing in itself – this is almost inevitable. As we wrestle against the intricate requirements of complex systems, nothing is ever finished, everything is a work in progress, but so is life.

---

First, as part of my capstone project for my degree, I present to you my code review of three artifacts I chose to enhance:

<iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Qh8Qr3i206WymGBqcJcwFGApYHn75K1a/preview" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

---

Next, let me direct you to the first of those artifacts, a simple REST API for performing CRUD operations on a MongoDB database:

[Client/Server code](https://github.com/ymerejsasnak/clientserver)

And also, a narrative on why I chose this item, what enhancements I made, and what I learned:

To fulfill the category of software engineering and design, I have chosen to revisit my final project from CS 340 (Client/Server Development). In this project, I created a basic Python program to perform database operations on a MongoDB database using the Pymongo library. I implemented create, read, update, and delete operations, as well as a few more specialized operations specific to the provided database. In addition, I integrated a simple microserver on top of that using Bottle.py and created a RESTful API to allow a client entity to access to the underlying CRUD functionality, and ultimately the Mongo database itself, via HTTP requests.

This particular artifact, even in its original state, was one of my favorite projects to come out of my education. I enjoyed the taste of the “full stack” experience with all of the separately interacting layers – the database, the APIs, the HTTP requests. I feel that this project showcases knowledge of a lot of different skills and tools, including using NoSQL databases, working with the JSON format, developing Python code, learning and incorporating unfamiliar libraries (Pymongo, Bottle), implementing REST APIs, and understanding HTTP protocols. However, despite all this, the original project falls far short of software design ideals. It was then my desire to improve the program by restructuring according to object oriented principles, thus making the code more modular and reusable, better prepared for potential collaboration, extension, and maintenance. In addition, making the code more robust and secure with the inclusion of unit tests, more checks for errors, and overall attention to security, showcases the ability to identify weaknesses and be mindful of quality control. Finally, ensuring everything is readable, especially in thoroughly updating each method’s doc string, helps in future enhancements and collaboration by making the code more comprehensible. Looking at it in a positive light, it could be said that I laid the groundwork for the further enhancement of the artifact by myself or others, though the code as yet falls far short of what I hoped for.

With the enhancements I have made, despite my lukewarm feelings about them, I have still touched on four of the five course outcomes. In making the code more readable and maintainable, I am preparing it for others who may have to work with it, thus paving the way for more painless collaboration. Both in writing about the artifact here, and in more thoroughly documenting the code, I have further exercised my ability to communicate about software and code in writing. As noted above with regard to each different element that was a part of this, I have demonstrated my ability to use techniques and tools, and to scour documentation and learn new tools as necessary to reach development goals and implement required functionality. Finally, while not reaching the ironclad fortress I had initially hoped for, inclusion of more checks for flaws and errors at least put the code on the right path to safety, though far more work in that regard would be needed.

While the entire enhancement process has given me more experience with all of the tools involved, and further developed my ability to analyze how understandable my code is in preparation for others to view or interact with it, a different lesson stands out to me. This particular enhancement has taught me that I still need to plan a project in far more detail before being able to accurately gauge the difficulty and effort/time requirements. I originally felt that such a simple project (essentially four core operations spread across two interacting classes) could easily be brought up to a near-professional level in about a week. While I still believe, given far more time to research each library more thoroughly, improve my Python ability, and devise more thorough tests, I could come close to attaining this ideal, I simply had unrealistic expectations given my level of knowledge and experience. Upon diving in deeper into the Python code and the libraries used, I found my understanding of them to be far less than I had first assumed; this should have been no surprise, for in any sub-area of development knowledge, what I know will likely always be outweighed by what I don’t know. I think remembering that and remaining humble and realistic in the face of it is a very important lesson – but also, with a computer science background, it is easier to know how to learn what is needed for the project at hand, and how to use relevant documentation, and how to implement new ideas and employ new technologies. In addition, given that I was one person working over a very constrained time frame, could I truly expect the polished piece of professional software that existed in my mind? Still, as mentioned above, I have managed to mold the project into a new shape, so to speak, and have added a basic framework of unit tests, and have updated the readability of everything by improving naming and writing extensive doc strings. All of this makes the project more conducive to further such enhancements, at least nudging it a bit closer to that ideal I had hoped for. 

---

Next we have the second artifact, a script for pulling data from a RaspberryPi with attached GrovePi, and a hash table for storing the data for quick lookup:

[WetSpec and Hash Table](https://github.com/ymerejsasnak/wetspec-script)

And again, a temporary link to the narrative .odt file, until I am able to update this text here instead:

[Hash Table Narrative](https://github.com/ymerejsasnak/wetspec-script/blob/master/jeremykansas.cs499.cat2narrative.odt)




*(there are many more projects on my github that I would like to highlight in the future...)*

*(these include my experiemental music instruments made in Processing, my work from my reverse engineering class, my initial forays into VMs and emulation with the LC-3, and a lot more stuff, feel free to browse my github until I get links officially added here...)*

*(also I will post links to my published Voltage Modular modules once I they are approved, but I will likely not be sharing the code for these...)*
